Sendgrid updates (#1011)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/sendgrid.mdx

 Step-by-step guide on sending your event data from RudderStack to SendGrid.

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aliases: ["SendGrid destination"]
---
```

Reviewer: as we have SendGrid as a source too.

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open source code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/sendgrid">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Getting started

RudderStack supports sending event data to SendGrid via the following <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">connection modes</a>:

| Connection Mode     | Web           | Mobile                 | Server        |
| :------------------ | :------------ | :--------------------- | :-------------|
| **Device mode**     | -             | -                      | -             |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported**          | **Supported** |

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to SendGrid, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **SendGrid**.
2. Assign a name to your destination and click **Continue**.

## Connection settings

To successfully configure SendGrid as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

> - **API Key**: Enter your SendGrid API Key. Refer to the [Sendgrid documentation](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) for more information on obtaining the API Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **API Key**: Enter your SendGrid API Key. Refer to the [Sendgrid documentation](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/api-keys) for more information on obtaining the API Key.
```

<div class="warningBlock">
This option is only useful when there are no properties in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call. SendGrid requires either the <code class="inline-code">templateId</code> or <code class="inline-code">content</code> for a successful event delivery. 
</div>

- **Reply-To Email**: Enter the email address where the email reply or bounce should be returned.
- **Reply-To Name**: Enter the user's name associated with the above email address.

<div class="infoBlock">
You can also send the email ID and name in the <code class="inline-code">replyTo</code> field in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call's properties. Note that these fields will override the <strong>Reply-To Email</strong> and <strong>Reply-To Name</strong> fields set in the RudderStack dashboard.
</div>

<div class="infoBlock">
For more information on how to send these details via the <code class="inline-code">replyTo</code> object, refer to the <Link to="#replyto">replyTo</Link> section below.
</div>

> - **IP Pool Name**: Enter the IP Pool Name. For detailed steps on creating the IP pool name, refer to the <a href="https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/ip-pools#create-an-ip-pool">SendGrid documentation</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **IP Pool Name**: Enter the IP Pool Name. For detailed steps on creating the IP pool, refer to the <a href="https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/ip-pools#create-an-ip-pool">SendGrid documentation</a>.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> The length of the IP Pool Name must be between 2 and 64 characters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The length of the IP Pool name must be between 2 and 64 characters. 
```

#### Event names

> - **Event**: Create the list of events for which the `track` calls will be made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Event**: Create the list of events for which RudderStack makes the `track` calls.
```

<div class="warningBlock">

> Any <code class="inline-code">track</code> call made with an event name that is not specified in this list will be <strong>discarded</strong>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RudderStack <strong>discards</strong> any <code class="inline-code">track</code> call made with an event name that is not specified in this list.
```

Use the **Attachments** settings to specify any attachments you want to include in your email. The individual settings are as follows:

- **Content**: This should be a Base64-encoded string.

> - **Type**: The attachment **type** contains the type of content you are attaching e.g. `"text/plain"`, `"text/html"`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Type**: The attachment **type** contains the type of content you are attaching, for example, `"text/plain"`, `"text/html"`, etc.
```

Finally, click on **Next** to complete the setup. SendGrid will now be enabled as a destination in RudderStack.

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify">`identify`</Link> call to create a new contact in SendGrid based on their email ID. If the email ID already exists, RudderStack updates the contact details. 

> Also, RudderStack sends the `identify` events to SendGrid in a batch where the batch limit is 30000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the `identify` events to SendGrid in a batch where the batch limit is 30000.
```

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Z", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com"
}, {
  "externalId": [{
    "type": "listIds",
    "id": ["037ae8d4-25b4-496e-adff-2fded15fd0c5", "137ae8d4-25b4-496e-adff-2fded15fd0c3"]
  }],
});
```

You can pass the SendGrid `listId` in any of the following ways:

> - In `externalId` object as shown in the above code snippet (takes highest precendence)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In `externalId` object as shown in the above code snippet (takes the highest precedence)
```

> - In **SendGrid Contact List Id** Rudderstack dashboard setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In **SendGrid Contact List Id** RudderStack dashboard setting.
```

### Supported mappings

The following table lists the property mappings betweeen RudderStack and SendGrid:

| RudderStack property | SendGrid property|
| :-------------------- | :---------------------- |
| `email` <br/> <span style="color: #4D4DFF;font-size:12px;">Required</span>   | `email` |
| `city`   | `city` |
| `country` | `country` |
| `first_name`   | `first_name` |
| `last_name` | `last_name` |
| `postal_code`   | `postal_code` |
| `state_province_region` | `state` |
| `address_line_1`   | `address` |
| `phone_number` | `phone_number` |

<div class="infoBlock">
If you send any custom field in the event payload, make sure it is present in SendGrid and mapped in the <strong>Map your traits to SendGrid custom fields</strong> RudderStack dashboard setting.
</div>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Deleting a user

You can delete a contact in SendGrid using the <Link to="/api/data-regulation-api/#adding-a-suppression-with-delete-regulation">Suppression with Delete regulation</Link> of the RudderStack <Link to="/api/data-regulation-api/">Data Regulation API</Link>.

<div class="infoBlock">
To delete a user, you must specify their <code class="inline-code">userId</code> in the event. Additionally, you can specify a custom identifier (optional) in the event.
</div>

A sample regulation request body for deleting a user in SendGrid is shown below:

```json
{
  "regulationType": "suppress_with_delete",
  "destinationIds": [
    "2FIKkByqn37FhzczP23eZmURciA"
  ],
  "users": [{
      "userId": "eab57ccf-6322-498e-9338-7761c6dc0656"
    },
    {
      "userId": "47983ca9-7cc6-4942-8ff0-ac443g95658d"
    }
  ],
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
